spring-cloud-gcp-samples/spring-cloud-gcp-sql-sample/README.adoc, before:

= Spring Cloud GCP SQL Starter Example

This code sample demonstrates how to connect to a Google Cloud SQL instance using the
link:../../spring-cloud-gcp-starters/spring-cloud-gcp-starter-sql/README.adoc[Spring Cloud GCP SQL
Starter].

We will create an instance, a database within the instance, populate the database and then query it.

= Setup & Configuration

1. Follow https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/quickstart[these instructions] to set up a Google
Cloud Project with billing enabled.

2. Create a Google Cloud SQL instance from the
https://console.cloud.google.com/sql/instances[Google Cloud Console Cloud SQL page].

3. Still within the Google Cloud Console SQL page, create a new database in the instance from the
"Databases" section.

4. Open the link:src/main/resources/application.properties[application.properties] file and replace
*[database-name]* with the name of the database you created in step 3 and
*[instance-connection-name]* with the instance connection name of the instance you created in
step 1.
+
If you set a root password, you should also add a `spring.datasource.password` property with the
password as the value.

5. https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/auth/login[If
you are authenticated in the Cloud SDK], your project ID and credentials will be automatically found
by the Spring Boot Starter for Google Cloud SQL.
+
Alternatively, uncomment the `spring.cloud.gcp.sql.project-id` and
`spring.cloud.gcp.sql.credentials.location` properties in the
link:src/main/resources/application.properties file and fill the values with your project ID and
the path to your service account credentials on your local file system, prepended with `file:`.

6. Run the `SqlApplication` Spring Boot app using the `$ mvn spring-boot:run` command.
The database will be populated based on the link:src/main/resources/schema.sql[schema.sql] and
link:src/main/resources/data.sql[data.sql] files.

7. Navigate to http://localhost:8080/getTuples in your browser to print the contents of the table
created in 5.

Commit message:

updating sql/jpa sample readmes with root password details

spring-cloud-gcp-samples/spring-cloud-gcp-sql-sample/README.adoc, after:

= Spring Cloud GCP SQL Code Sample

This code sample demonstrates how to connect to a Google Cloud SQL instance using the
link:../../spring-cloud-gcp-starters/spring-cloud-gcp-starter-sql/README.adoc[Spring Cloud GCP SQL
Starter].

We will create an instance, a database within the instance, populate the database and then query it.

== Setup

1. Follow https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/quickstart[these instructions] to set up a Google
Cloud Project with billing enabled.

2. Create a Google Cloud SQL instance from the
https://console.cloud.google.com/sql/instances[Google Cloud Console Cloud SQL page].

3. Still within the Google Cloud Console SQL page, create a new database in the instance from the
"Databases" section. **We recommend you to setup a root password** for your instance (in PostgreSQL you have to).
**Take note of your root password**, as you will need it in the next step.

4. Open the link:src/main/resources/application.properties[application.properties] file and replace
*[database-name]* with the name of the database you created in step 3 and
*[instance-connection-name]* with the instance connection name of the instance you created in
step 1.
+
Add the `spring.datasource.password` property with the password as the value.

5. https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/auth/login[If
you are authenticated in the Cloud SDK], your project ID and credentials will be automatically found
by the Spring Boot Starter for Google Cloud SQL.
+
Alternatively, uncomment the `spring.cloud.gcp.sql.project-id` and
`spring.cloud.gcp.sql.credentials.location` properties in the
link:src/main/resources/application.properties file and fill the values with your project ID and
the path to your service account credentials on your local file system, prepended with `file:`.

== Running the application

You can run the `SqlApplication` Spring Boot app using the following command:

`$ mvn spring-boot:run`

The database will be populated based on the link:src/main/resources/schema.sql[schema.sql] and
link:src/main/resources/data.sql[data.sql] files.

When the application is up, navigate to http://localhost:8080/getTuples in your browser to print the contents of the `users` table.
