spring-cloud-gcp-samples/spring-cloud-gcp-data-jpa-sample/README.adoc, before:

= Spring Data JPA with Spring Cloud GCP SQL Code Sample

This sample application demonstrates how to use
https://projects.spring.io/spring-data-jpa/[Spring Data JPA] with the
link:../../spring-cloud-gcp-starters/spring-cloud-gcp-starter-sql[Spring Cloud GCP SQL Starter].

== Setup

* If you don't have a Google Cloud Platform project with billing enabled, create one from the
https://console.cloud.google.com/[Google Cloud Console].

* To authenticate, you have two options:

1. Download the https://cloud.google.com/sdk/[Google Cloud SDK] and run the following command:
+
`$ gcloud auth application-default login`

2. Create a service account from the
https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/serviceaccounts[Google Cloud Console], download its
private key and point the `spring.cloud.gcp.credentials.location` property in the
`application.properties` file to it.

* Create a Google Cloud SQL instance in your project from the
https://console.cloud.google.com/sql[Google Cloud Console].
Copy the `instance connection name` from the console to the
`spring.cloud.gcp.sql.instance-connection-name` property value in the `application.properties` file.
+
Use the `Databases` section to create a database in your instance, e.g., `houses`.
Copy the database name to the `spring.cloud.gcp.sql.database-name` property value in the
`application.properties` file.

== Running the application

This application uses the Spring Cloud GCP SQL starter to configure a `JdbcTemplate` object, which
the Spring Data JPA starter uses as an input.

This application is runnable by executing the following command from the same directory where the
`pom.xml` file is located:

`$ mvn spring-boot:run`

It writes a few house tuples to the database and then reads and prints each house address from the
database.

Commit message:

updating sql/jpa sample readmes with root password details

spring-cloud-gcp-samples/spring-cloud-gcp-data-jpa-sample/README.adoc, after:

= Spring Data JPA with Spring Cloud GCP SQL Code Sample

This sample application demonstrates how to use
https://projects.spring.io/spring-data-jpa/[Spring Data JPA] with the
link:../../spring-cloud-gcp-starters/spring-cloud-gcp-starter-sql[Spring Cloud GCP SQL Starter].

We will create an instance, a database within the instance, populate the database and then query it.

== Setup

1. Follow https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/quickstart[these instructions] to set up a Google
Cloud Project with billing enabled.

2. Create a Google Cloud SQL instance from the
https://console.cloud.google.com/sql/instances[Google Cloud Console Cloud SQL page].

3. Still within the Google Cloud Console SQL page, create a new database in the instance from the
"Databases" section. **We recommend you to setup a root password** for your instance (in PostgreSQL you have to).
**Take note of your root password**, as you will need it in the next step.

4. Open the link:src/main/resources/application.properties[application.properties] file and replace
*[database-name]* with the name of the database you created in step 3 and
*[instance-connection-name]* with the instance connection name of the instance you created in
step 1.
+
Add the `spring.datasource.password` property with the password as the value.

5. https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/auth/login[If
you are authenticated in the Cloud SDK], your project ID and credentials will be automatically found
by the Spring Boot Starter for Google Cloud SQL.
+
Alternatively, uncomment the `spring.cloud.gcp.sql.project-id` and
`spring.cloud.gcp.sql.credentials.location` properties in the
link:src/main/resources/application.properties file and fill the values with your project ID and
the path to your service account credentials on your local file system, prepended with `file:`.

== Running the application

This application uses the Spring Cloud GCP SQL starter to configure a `JdbcTemplate` object, which
the Spring Data JPA starter uses as an input.

This application is runnable by executing the following command from the same directory where the
`pom.xml` file is located:

`$ mvn spring-boot:run`

It writes a few house tuples to the database and then reads and prints each house address from the
database.
